README.md, before:

# An Introduction to the UNIX Shell

## What is this?

This is a tutorial introduction to the Unix shell, suitable for people
who want to know how to use it effectively and how to write
sophisticated shell scripts.

## History

The tutorial was originally written by the creator of the modern
shell, S. R. Bourne, as part of the documentation for the Version 7
Unix shell, aka the "Bourne Shell". It was included as part of the
Version 7 Unix sources.

The document was lightly updated by Mark Seiden for the 4.3BSD Unix
release, but otherwise remained dormant for some decades. However, the
text became open source when Caldera released the Version 7 Unix
sources under a modified BSD license.

In 2010 I (Perry Metzger) was teaching an Intro to Unix class and
needed a good tutorial on the shell. I believed Bourne's original
introduction was still the best and most thorough one that was freely
available, but it was by then substantially out of date on many
details that would be important to beginners. I therefore
substantially modernized it and used it successfully for my class.

I'm releasing it here so that it may be of wider benefit to people
learning about the shell.

## License

The original document is under a modified BSD license. My
modifications are under the similar but simpler ISC license.

For practical purposes, you can feel free to do more or less whatever
you want with the document, including giving copies to all your
students and making improvements or modifications to it, so long as
you leave the copyright statement intact.

## Feedback

I'm actively interested in comments, suggestions and improvements to
this document. Please let me know, either with a bug report on Github
or by email. (My address is "perry" at the domain "piermont.com")

Commit message:

Add a section on the sources and PDF

README.md, after:

# An Introduction to the UNIX Shell

## What is this?

This is a tutorial introduction to the Unix shell, suitable for people
who want to know how to use it effectively and how to write
sophisticated shell scripts.

## Sources and PDF

This document is written in troff, using the `ms` macros plus some
extras included with it. A Makefile is included that will build the
document on most Unix systems.

The sources are maintained using the git distributed revision control
system. The latest version of the repository may be found at:
<https://github.com/pmetzger/ShellTutorial>

A PDF version of the document should also be available for download
from: <https://github.com/pmetzger/ShellTutorial/downloads>

## History

The tutorial was originally written by the creator of the modern
shell, S. R. Bourne, as part of the documentation for the Version 7
Unix shell, aka the "Bourne Shell". It was included as part of the
Version 7 Unix sources.

The document was lightly updated by Mark Seiden for the 4.3BSD Unix
release, but otherwise remained dormant for some decades. However, the
text became open source when Caldera released the Version 7 Unix
sources under a modified BSD license.

In 2010 I (Perry Metzger) was teaching an Intro to Unix class and
needed a good tutorial on the shell. I believed Bourne's original
introduction was still the best and most thorough one that was freely
available, but it was by then substantially out of date on many
details that would be important to beginners. I therefore
substantially modernized it and used it successfully for my class.

I'm releasing it here so that it may be of wider benefit to people
learning about the shell.

## License

The original document is under a modified BSD license. My
modifications are under the similar but simpler ISC license.

For practical purposes, you can feel free to do more or less whatever
you want with the document, including giving copies to all your
students and making improvements or modifications to it, so long as
you leave the copyright statement intact.

## Feedback

I'm actively interested in comments, suggestions and improvements to
this document. Please let me know, either with a bug report on Github
or by email. (My address is "perry" at the domain "piermont.com")
